{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red12\green70\blue152;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c4706\c27451\c59608;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24680\viewh19780\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs66 \cf0 iTrain\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf0 Version 5.1\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Copyright (c) 2024 Berros. All rights reserved. 
\fs34 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Author: Xander Berkhout\
Company: Berros\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Web: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://berros.eu/itrain"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://berros.eu/itrain}}\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 1. Requirements\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Apple: Mac with macOS 10.13 (High Sierra), macOS 10.14 (Mojave), macOS 10.15 (Catalina), macOS 11 (Big Sur), macOS 12 (Monterey), macOS 13 (Ventura), macOS 14 (Sonoma) or macOS 15 (Sequoia).\
Windows: Windows 10 or Windows 11.\
Linux: A Debian based Linux distribution such as Ubuntu, Mint or Raspberry Pi OS.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 2. Installation
\f1\b0 \
\
Apple: Drag and drop iTrain to the Applications folder.\
Windows: Execute the  installation program .\
Linux: Execute the installation program.\
\

\f0\b 3. Demo
\f1\b0 \
\
The file called 'demo.tcdz' contains  a small layout with a station on the bottom and a shadow station on top. It is an example layout that can even be run when you have no license. It may be help you to look how things can be configured. Just load the file after you have started iTrain.\
\

\f0\b 4. Activation
\f1\b0 \
\
Without a license iTrain can only be run with a maximum of 3 locomotives and 32 accessories and 32 feedbacks and the LocoNet\'ae protocol is not available, because it is a property of Digitrax, Inc. and is used under license.\
To remove the restrictions you need a license. By registering on the website you can get a trial license for 2 months. You can also buy a license via the website.\
\

\f0\b 5. Purchasing iTrain
\f1\b0 \
\
iTrain is not free of charge. If you enjoy working with iTrain or find it useful, you can purchase it to support further development. You will get a new license with no time restrictions and free upgrades of all 5.x versions. \
\

\f0\b 6. Support\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 For support and customer information there is a support forum available at https://berros.eu/forum\
Question are best asked on the forum so that other people can benefit from the answers.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 7. Translations\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Although the manual is currently only maintained directly in English, German, Dutch French and Spanish, the user interface has been translated into some more languages. People interested to localize the iTrain user interface in their language should contact us. We will then add their translations to the product, but we cannot be held responsible for possible errors in these extra translations.\
\
Extra user interface languages included are:\
Italian by Luca Lazzazzera and Marco Lupis\
Portuguese by Carlos da Silva\
Danish by Michal Jensen\
\
For a translation error in any language just contact us and we will try to fix it.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 8. General conditions\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
This product may only be used for personal use. The license is personal and not transferable, except in consultation with Berros otherwise agreed. Any commercial use must first be discussed with Berros. \
Using the program is to your own risk. Berros can not be held responsible for any damage that the use of this program may cause to your computer, model trains or anything else. To prevent problems it is strongly recommended to first read the manual.\
\
By installing the Software, the Licensee is indicating that the Licensee has read and understands this Agreement and agrees to be bound by its terms and conditions.\
If this Agreement is unacceptable to the Licensee, the Licensee must destroy any copies of the Software in the Licensee's possession immediately.\
\
CONDITIONS\
\
The Licensee is granted a non-exclusive and non-transferable license to install the Software.\
Any copies of the Software should be complete copies including any copyright notices.\
\
The Licensee may not reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, alter, or translate the Software, or otherwise attempt to derive the source code of the Software.\
\
No claims whatsoever can be made on Berros based on any expectation about the Software.\
\
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY\
\
In no event will Berros be liable for any damages, including but not limited to any loss of data, however caused, directly or indirectly, by the Software or by this Agreement. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 9. Third party libraries\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 iTrain makes use of some third party libraries that have been included in the package in binary form:\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 JGoodies Forms\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf0 Copyright (c) 2002-2006 JGoodies Karsten Lentzsch. All rights reserved.\
\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without \
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
\
 o Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, \
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
    \
 o Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, \
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation \
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
    \
 o Neither the name of JGoodies Karsten Lentzsch nor the names of \
   its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived \
   from this software without specific prior written permission. \
    \
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" \
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR \
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR \
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; \
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, \
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR \
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, \
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 FlatLAF\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf0 Copyright 2021 FormDev Software GmbH\
\
 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\
 You may obtain a copy of the License at\
\
 http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\
\
 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\
 limitations under the License.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 jSerialComm\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf0 Copyright 2021 Fazecast, Inc. \
\
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\
You may obtain a copy of the License at\
\
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\
\
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\
limitations under the License.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 \
}